
*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 74293 ***

Transcriber's notes: Unusual and inconsistent spelling is as printed.

New original cover art included with this eBook is granted to the
public domain.



                           [Illustration]

                             Chats with
                              Children

                           [Illustration]

                           AMY LE FEUVRE


                Bishop Taylor Smith, the Evangelical
                  British Chaplain-General, said:
           "Miss LE FEUVRE'S books need no introduction,
                    they are always INSPIRING."



Books by

Amy le Feuvre

    ————

PROBABLE SONS.
HEATHER'S MISTRESS.
TEDDY'S BUTTON.
DWELL DEEP.
DREAMIKINS.
THE CARVED CUPBOARD.
ERIC'S GOOD NEWS.
A LITTLE LISTENER.
A PUZZLING PAIR.
A DAUGHTER OF THE SEA.
THE DISCOVERY OF DAMARIS.
CHILDREN OF THE CRESCENT.
US, AND OUR CHARGE.
MISS LAVENDER'S BOY.
HAREBELL'S FRIEND.
A THOUGHTLESS SEVEN.
ON THE EDGE OF A MOOR.
DICKY'S BROTHER.
  And many others.



[Illustration]



[Illustration: CHAT I. Photo: Wallace, Sidmouth. "A Lovely Old Garden."
 _Frontispiece._]



                         Chats with

                          Children

                             or

                  Pearls for Young People

               Strung from the Word of Truth


                             By

                       Amy le Feuvre

        Author of "Probable Sons," "Teddy's Button,"
                  "Eric's Good News," etc.


               WITH FOUR COLOURED AND EIGHT
               BLACK AND WHITE ILLUSTRATIONS


                      [Illustration]


                    PICKERING & INGLIS

        14 PATERNOSTER ROW      229 BOTHWELL STREET
          LONDON, E.C.4             GLASGOW, C.2

           And most Booksellers and Colporteurs



            Made and Printed in Great Britain



                        CONTENTS

                          ————

  CHAT I. Outside and Inside

  CHAT II. We are His Workmanship

  CHAT III. The Way to Heaven

  CHAT IV. A Knock at the Door

  CHAT V. How to Tackle Giants

  CHAT VI. A Free Gift

  CHAT VII. To Be Ready

  CHAT VIII. The Unknown Visitor

  CHAT IX. Our Inheritance

           The City Bright

           Stories Illustrating Chats

           Guide to Illustrations

           Key to Bible Quotations



                     ILLUSTRATIONS

                          ————

                 Illustrations in Colour


   THE POTTER'S WHEEL

   A MEASURE OF MEAL

   SELLING SPARROWS IN TEMPLE

   WASHING FEET



           Illustrations in Black and White


   CHAT I. A LOVELY OLD GARDEN. Frontispiece.

   CHAT I. AN INVALID BOY

   CHAT II. A REAL TOY BOAT

   CHAT II. GATHERING FRUIT

   CHAT III. CHILDREN AND PET DOG

   CHAT III. LOST BOY AND POLICEMAN

   CHAT V. RAILWAY TRAIN AND STATION

   CHAT VII. THINK ABOUT IT SERIOUSLY



               Pictures for Painting

      ARE PRINTED ON THE BACK OF BLACK PRINT.


   Pictures to Paint—1. WHAT BIBLE SCENE IS THIS?

   Pictures to Paint—2. WHAT BIBLE SCENE IS THIS?

   Pictures to Paint—3. WHAT DOES THIS REPRESENT?

   Pictures to Paint—4. WHO ARE THESE TWO PERSONS?

   Pictures to Paint—5. WHAT BIBLE SCENE IS THIS?

   Pictures to Paint—6. WHAT GREAT EVENT IS THIS?

   Pictures to Paint—7. WHAT NEW TESTAMENT SCENE IS THIS?



[Illustration: CHAT I. "If your Body Is Hurt or Ill."]



[Illustration: Pictures to Paint—1. WHAT BIBLE SCENE IS THIS?]



                      CHATS WITH

                       CHILDREN

                   BY AMY LE FEUVRE



                        CHAT I

                         ———

                      "Outside
                         and
                       Inside"



              "Man looketh on the
               outward appearance,
               but the Lord looketh
               on the heart."
                     (1 Samuel 16.7)



                        CHAT I

                 "Outside and Inside"

   "Man looketh on the outward appearance,
    but the Lord looketh on the heart."
                         (1 Samuel 16.7)

OUTSIDE and inside. How different they are! I remember a very ugly
looking house, which I used to love as a little girl. It faced the
street, with straight rows of windows, bare and square, and not a
creeper or flower to be seen. But inside, what a delicious comfortable
house it was! And a lovely old garden behind, hidden and surrounded
by high walls. All the flowers, all the beautiful china and pictures,
and pretty old-fashioned furniture were to be seen after you entered
it, and not before. I have seen many pretty looking houses since, some
quite charming with their gabled windows and creeper clad walls, yet
some of them inside, are damp and ugly and uncomfortable.

When you go to a bookseller's to choose yourself a book do you choose
it for its cover, or for the story inside? Some of the dryest dullest
books have the most handsome binding, and some of the most thrilling
stories are wrapped up in a very poor cover.

Which do you value most, the envelope, or the letter inside? Your
purse, or the money that is in it? Do you like best the shell of a nut,
or the kernel inside? Which is most important, the case of a clock or
watch, or the works inside? Do you like the outside of your chocolate
box best, or the chocolates inside?

Outside and inside! Nearly always the inside of a thing is the thing
that matters. The outside is a mere case or covering for the treasure
within.

So it is with us. We are so apt to judge people by the outside look of
them. It is one of the pathetic facts in life, that pretty children,
and beautiful girls, and handsome boys, get most love from the world
around them. And yet their souls inside may not be nearly so beautiful
as plain featured children. A crooked body may contain a lovely soul.
A lovely body may contain a crooked and distorted soul. Outside and
inside—how different they may be. Our verse says:

   "Man looketh on the outward appearance, but the Lord looketh on the
heart."

I want you to sit still for a few minutes and think about this. You
have your outside, and your inside. Your body and your soul. Your
body is simply a case for your soul, to be the means of moving and
thinking and talking and acting as your soul desires. I am not going
to confuse you by talking about your mind, or intellect, or spirit. We
are composed of soul and body. Our souls are the only part of us that
matters, for they can never die; our body may wear out, and die, drop
away from us like an old garment, but our souls live on. They are the
living part of us that God loves and guards, that He sent His only Son
to die for, because He wanted them in Heaven above.

A great many people care for your body. Your parents rightly try to
keep it in health. They send for a doctor if your body is hurt or ill.
They feed it, and buy clothes for it. Nearly all the shops in a big
town are selling things for your body. It needs a lot of things to keep
it well. Food and drink, fires in winter, a soft bed at night for its
rest and refreshment. Shelter from storm, shade from great heat.

Some of us take the greatest care of our bodies, but never, never think
of the welfare of our souls. Now in these little chats with you, I
want to get at your souls, to the inside thinking, loving part of you,
to the bit of you that ought to be touching God and living with Him,
whilst your bodies are running about and enjoying this beautiful earth.

God thinks most about your souls, or hearts, as they are often called
in the Bible.

What kind of a soul have you?

You are taught to take care of your body, to feed it, to clothe it, not
to do things which might hurt it. Your parents want your body to grow
bigger and stronger every year.

Is your soul growing bigger and stronger too?

Are you feeding it? Does it get hurt or damaged?

Now it may be comparatively easy to take care of our bodies, but it is
quite impossible for us to take care of our souls. There is only One
Person who made them, and who knows just what they want, and has the
right food to give them. This Person you know is God.

We are told that when our bodies die, our spirits or souls return to
God who gave them to us. They belong to God. He is the only One who can
keep them safely, and make them grow strong and beautiful. We may not
all have beautiful bodies, but we can all have beautiful souls, if we
hand them over to God to keep.

Is this difficult to do?

Let us talk about it a little.

The Devil wants to get possession of your souls to destroy them. He
tries to keep us away from God because he knows that our souls will
thrive and blossom into beauty, and be kept in perfect safety if we
hand them over to God.

So he employs different means of keeping us far away from God.

He surrounds us with boys and girls who never think about their souls
at all, and they persuade us that saying prayers and reading the Bible,
and going to Church or Chapel, is all very dull and stupid. We must
have a jolly time, and enjoy ourselves, and whatever we do, must never
turn "pi," or be a prig.

Then lessons, and games, and treats all follow each other so quickly
that we feel we haven't time to think about God.

We are too busy, too occupied, too full of interesting plans and
purposes to think about our souls. The Devil takes care to keep us
busy. What can we do? Only one thing. Come straight to the Lord Jesus
Christ, kneel down in any quiet corner, ask Him when we go to bed at
night, and when we get up in the morning to take our soul into His
loving keeping.

He will do the rest. He will remind us just in time before we are going
to give way to temper, before we're going to tell a lie; He will give
us courage to stand up for the right, and to refuse to join in any
wrong doing, and He will give us sunshine and happiness in our souls.

We are told that "He is able to keep what is committed to Him."

He will never fail us.

God has loved our souls so much that He sent Christ to save them from
the Devil's hold and power. He will wash them in His precious Blood and
hold them in His keeping till He calls them to the golden Unseen Land
above.

Will you to-day give your soul, your heart to God? May He help you to
do so.



[Illustration: CHAT II. "A Real Toy Boat."]



[Illustration: Pictures to Paint—2. WHAT BIBLE SCENE IS THIS?]



                       CHAT II

                         ———

                        "His
                     Workmanship"



              "For we are His workmanship,
               created in Christ Jesus
               unto good works, which
               God hath before ordained
               that we should walk in them."
                     (Ephesians 2.10)



[Illustration: THE POTTER. Jeremiah 18.2-4.]



                       CHAT II

               "We are His Workmanship"

   "For we are His workmanship, created
    in Christ Jesus unto good works, which
    God hath before ordained that we should
    walk in them."
                          (Ephesians 2.10)

HAVE you ever made anything? I am sure you have. It may have only been
a paper boat, or a doll's frock, but you were very proud of it at the
time. Perhaps one of you may have made a real toy boat and taken it
down to the pond to sail it. How anxious you were to see if it was a
success or a failure! How pleased you were when some grown up person
took it into his hand and looked at it, and said, "It does you credit!"
Think how busy people are, all over the world, making things—watches,
clocks, motors, aeroplanes, guns, books, pictures, machines of all
sorts and sizes.

If you talk to them, you will soon find that they are all anxious about
one thing, and that is for their work and invention to be a success, to
fulfil the purpose for which they made it. They want their watches and
clocks to keep good time, their motors and air machines to move swiftly
and easily, and not to be failures. They don't want their inventions to
lie useless and idle, and what is the good of them if they do that?

Almighty God has made this world and all the wonderful and beautiful
things in it, but of all the things that He has made, the most precious
in His sight is a human soul. There are a great many of us. Some are
black, some are white, some are born in rich circumstances, some in
poverty.

Some are strong. Some are weak. But we are all His workmanship, and He
made us—each one of us for a purpose.

Ask yourself this question:

For what purpose did God make me? Why did He want me in the world?

This is quite certain. God put you in this world to carry out some work
for Him. He made you for it. And He wants you to be a success and not a
failure; He wants you to bring Him credit. As the Bible says, you were
created for His glory. Have you brought God any glory by your life? Do
people want to follow Christ because of you?

Now, does this seem impossible?

Have you a garden? And have you any fruit trees in it? If so, in the
autumn you will expect fruit from them. A gardener once said to a lady
who was walking round the garden of which he had charge:

"I always have success with my plants. I never keep anything that does
not bring me credit. If plants don't flower as they ought, I pitch them
away; if my apples won't bear, I root them up."

Ah! How good, and patient, and long-suffering is our Heavenly Father
with His plants and fruit trees! What fruit are you bearing for Him?
What sweet scented flowers are blossoming on your stalk? Have you been
a failure or a success in His garden?

"His workmanship!"

Think of it when you are quarrelling and stamping with rage, when
you're sulking, when you're telling untruths, and doing things in
secret which you know you ought not to do.

God's workmanship! Did He make me for this? I am not bringing Him
credit. I am bringing dishonour upon my Maker. I am like a watch that
won't keep time, that is useless, that is no good to anyone.

There are several failures mentioned in the Bible.

There is the case of the "fig tree" that never bore any figs.

There were the "lamps without oil," the lamps that gave no light to the
Virgins who held them.

There was the case of a watchman who was blind.

And there were "wells without water."

There are boys and girls now running about and enjoying themselves.
Having a good time, and only thinking of pleasing themselves.

They are fruit trees in God's garden. Yet so far they have never
brought Him fruit, though He comes again and again so patiently and
lovingly, to see if there is any sign or beginning of fruit bearing.

They are lamps made to shine for their Master, but no light comes from
them. They are useless.

They are wanted to be watchmen for God, looking out for the coming of
their Master, telling others about Him and warning them of danger when
it comes. But they see nothing. They are blind.

They are wells. Made by God to contain the Water of Life, and to be the
means of refreshing and watering others. But they are dry and empty, or
filled with rubbish, choked with refuse—and not a drop of water in them.

God's workmanship! And yet such a failure!

"Well," you say, "I can't help myself. It comes natural to me. I can't
be good."

Do you want to be good? To be what God means you to be?

I heard a preacher once say that at the Judgment Day when we shall all
have to appear before our Maker, it may be that a picture will be held
up before us, a picture of what God meant us to be when He made us and
put us in this world. And as we look upon it, and think of what we
might have been, and what we have been, we shall be filled with horror,
and regret, and remorse. The contrast will condemn us so utterly!

How can we be a success instead of a failure?

If a watch or machine goes wrong, the best thing is to take it back to
its maker. He will put it right, even if he has to make it over again.

Dear boys and girls, if you take yourself back to your Maker, and put
yourselves in His hands to be made what He wants you to be, He will do
it.

The fact is, we were never meant to live a single day in this world
without God helping and holding us. The Lord Jesus Christ came to die
for our sins, but He also came to show us how to live in this world
with God holding our hands.

Kneel down in some quiet corner by yourself, and ask God to take your
soul into His keeping and never let you go. You don't know what a
difference it will make in your life. You will not be less happy, but
much more happy. And He will be able to teach you and show you your
work day by day.

And if you do it, you will bring glory instead of dishonour upon the
One who made you.

"For we are His workmanship, created in Christ Jesus unto good works,
which God hath before ordained that we should walk in them."



[Illustration: CHAT II. "In the Autumn you expect Fruit."]



[Illustration: Pictures to Paint—3. WHAT DOES THIS REPRESENT?]



                       CHAT III

                         ———

                       The Way
                          to
                        Heaven



              "I am the way . . . no man
               cometh unto the Father,
               but by Me."
                     (John 14.6)



                       CHAT III

                  The Way to Heaven

   "I am the way . . . no man cometh unto
    the Father, but by Me."
                         (John 14.6)

JUST suppose one day that you were out for a walk, and you suddenly
came upon a road you had never noticed before, and which had a
sign-post at the corner of it saying:

"Way to Heaven."

Would you like to walk along it? I think a great many would. Some might
say:

"I've been trying to get there all my life, but it's so difficult to
find the way to it. And now here it is at last."

Perhaps you would say:

"I should like to feel I was on the way there, but I don't want to
arrive there just yet. I mean to get there at last."

I don't think there is a single boy or girl in the world who would not
like to feel certain that when they died, they would go to Heaven.

But if we want to get there when we die, we must start going along the
road to it while we are alive.

Let us talk a little bit about Heaven.

Little children like it, because it sounds like a happy fairyland to
them. Nobody to hurt them or quarrel with them, no darkness, lovely
music, white robes, rivers and fruit trees, paths of gold. Nothing
to be afraid of, no sickness, no pain, every one full of joy and
happiness, lots of little angel children to play with. Who would not
like to be there?

When you grow older you will still like to think of such a beautiful
Heaven, but you will want to go there to meet your old friends, your
parents, your brothers and sisters who have gone before you, and above
all, you will want to meet your Saviour whom you have learnt to love.

Do you know the road to Heaven?

So many start out for it, and lose their way.

And I will tell you a secret.

Boys and girls are much nearer the Road when they are small, than when
they get bigger.

It is easier to find when you are young, than when you grow up.

Do you remember a little verse in the Bible which says:

  "I love them that love Me, and those that seek Me early shall find Me."

What has this to do with the road to Heaven?

I will tell you in a few minutes.

Just before the Lord Jesus died He told His disciples He was going away
from them to prepare a Place for them in God's House which is Heaven.
He said: "You know where I am going, and you know the Way."

Thomas, one of the disciples, said in a puzzled sort of way:

"But we don't know where You are going, and how can we know the Way?"

Then Jesus said:

   "I am the Way...no man cometh unto the Father but by Me."

He had told them this over and over again, but they did not seem to
understand.

Just like us. So few people understand it.

Jesus had told them once before:

   "I am the Door. By Me if any man enter in, he shall be saved."

So if the Lord Jesus is the Door into Heaven, and if He is the Way to
Heaven, we have got to find Him, and He will take us safely into His
Father's House.

How can we find Him?

I met a tiny boy once trotting along a busy street. He had no hat on,
and was only about three years old. Suddenly a big dog sprang playfully
on him. He screamed in terror and fled. I took him up in my arms, and
he put his little arms round my neck and clung tightly to me.

"Take me home! Take me home!" he cried.

But he couldn't tell me where his home was, and I did not know. I put
him down on the path again, when the dog was out of sight, hoping he
would trot in the right direction. I asked several people if they
knew him. No one did. I walked up one road with him and then another;
and was afraid I would have to take him to the Police Station, when
suddenly a young woman met us. She had come from his home, and was
looking everywhere for him. I gave him into her charge, and he went
away quite happily. I had tried to help him, but I was unable to do so.
I could only hand him over to the one who knew the way.

The Lord Jesus Christ is always looking for boys and girls. They may
ask grown up people, teachers, and preachers to help them, but they
cannot take them to Heaven, they can only hand them over, as I did, to
the One who is looking for them.

Jesus Christ is close to you. He came down to this world to be the Door
from earth to Heaven. He died to open that Door wide to every one who
comes to Him and trusts Him.

Will you come to Him to-day just as you are, and ask Him to take you by
the hand and never leave go of you till you have arrived inside Heaven?
He will do it. He has said: "Those that seek Me early shall find Me." "No
man cometh unto the Father, but by Me."

[Illustration: CHAT III. "A Big Dog."]



[Illustration: Pictures to Paint—4. WHO ARE THESE TWO PERSONS?]



The Lord Jesus Christ is the only Way to Heaven.

Have you ever read the "Pilgrim's Progress?" Do you remember how safe
Christiana and her children were when they had Mr. Greatheart walking
in front of them to defend them from all dangers, and keep them in the
right path to the Golden City?

I always felt so sorry for Christian because he had no Mr. Greatheart.
We all have our Mr. Greatheart. It is the Lord Jesus Himself. He goes
before us and leads us by the hand. It will be easy walking with Him.
We shall be happy and safe. Oh, dear boys and girls, do come to Him;
do take Him for your Mr. Greatheart. Do trust yourselves body and soul
into His loving keeping.

Then you may be sure that you have found the Way to Heaven, and are
walking in it.



                       CHAT IV

                         ———

                       A Knock
                          at
                       the Door



              "Behold, I stand at the
               door, and knock: if any
               man hear My voice and
               open the door, I will
               come in to him, and
               will sup with him, and
               he with Me."
                     (Rev. 3.20)



                       CHAT IV

                A Knock at the Door

   "Behold, I stand at the door, and knock:
    if any man hear My voice and open the door,
    I will come in to him, and will sup with
    him, and he with Me."
                         (Rev. 3.20)

LET us think now for a short time about something that you see and use
every day, that sometimes brings safety, and sometimes danger, and that
divides one from the other. Can you guess? You have a good many of them
in your house, and you are moving them all day long. We are going to
talk about a door.

How impossible it is to open a door and walk in, if it is locked and
bolted against us! Open doors take us into delightful places, but they
can also take us into prison. What important parts of a house they are!
How safe you feel in bed at night knowing that all the house doors are
shut and fastened inside!

A door is sometimes a man's salvation. Here is a man fleeing for his
life! He is unarmed and defenceless, another man is pursuing him sword
in hand. He means to kill him. The frightened man comes to his house,
he dashes in at his door. He draws the stout bolt and locks it. His
enemy is outside. He breathes freely.

We are glad we have a door to shut out our enemies, but do we ever shut
out our friends?

There was an old woman who lived in a little cottage in Scotland, not
very far from Balmoral, the Castle that belongs to our Kings and Queens.

When Queen Victoria was alive, she was very fond of visiting some of
the old people who lived near her. One afternoon this old woman sat in
her cottage alone. She was in a very bad temper. She had quarrelled
with her nearest neighbour, and because some of her friends had been
gossiping about her, she shut her door and locked it, saying viciously
to herself:

"Ay, I'll keep myself to myself in future. I won't let 'em in when they
come to try and get a dish o' tea out o' me."

Presently she heard a soft knock at her door.

She set her lips and nodded her head.

"Knock awa'," she whispered.

The knock was repeated louder now.

"Knock awa' till doomsday," she called out in a angry voice. "I'll not
let ye in!"

The knock was not repeated, and footsteps outside were heard going away.

The old woman nodded her head and smiled.

"They won't trouble me for a bit," she assured herself.

But she did not smile the next day when she was told that her Queen had
stood outside her door, and knocked for admission, and she had refused
to let her in.

The Queen never visited her again.

There was a poor man in Liverpool who could not pay his rent. He
lived in a little house by himself, and was in great trouble lest his
landlord should turn him out. One day he heard a knock at his door, and
thinking it was his landlord, he locked the door and slipped out into
his back garden, hoping people would think he was out.

The knocking went on for some time, then ceased, and the man crept
back into his house by and by, and thought he had been very clever in
escaping his landlord. But in a few days the landlord sent the bailiffs
in to sell him up, and then too late, he heard that a rich friend had
come to see him a few days before on his way to America. It was he who
had knocked, and had been shut out, and the poor man knew that he would
have given him the money for his rent, if he had opened the door.

[Illustration: A MEASURE OF MEAL. Matthew 13.33.]

Now, we have each of us a little house of our own inside us, with a
door which we can open or shut at our will. It is the door of our
heart. We let in a good many visitors who spoil our house for us, and
stain it with sin. Temper, envy, pride, cowardice, selfishness, and
deceit all work havoc in our hearts, but there is one Royal Visitor who
comes and knocks and pleads with us to let Him in.

"My son, my daughter," He says, "give Me your heart!"

"Behold, I stand at the door, and knock: if any man hear My voice and
open the door, I will come in to him, and will sup with him, and he
with Me."

It is the Voice of Jesus. Have you ever heard it? He comes to every boy
and girl, for He loves them all. He wants you to know Him and love Him,
and if He seems a stranger to you now, He will not be a stranger long
if you open the door of your heart to Him. He will cleanse your heart
whiter than snow if you let Him in. He will help you to guard the door
against your enemies, and all those wicked spirits who are trying to
spoil your happiness and life.

A young woman said to me one day:

"I'm expecting a visitor soon. It's my mother from the country. My
husband always likes to see her, for she brings us such a lot of
presents when she comes. She has a farm, and she brings us butter and
eggs, and chickens."

"And I suppose you like to see her too?" I said smiling.

"Oh, yes; but not for what she brings. She's my mother, you see, and I
dearly love her!"

Now, children, the Lord Jesus Christ brings presents with Him when He
comes into your heart. He brings pardon for your past sins, peace,
and joy, and power to fight your enemies and overcome them. Will you
remember those three presents all beginning with a "P":

Pardon, Peace, Power.

They will last you all your life, and as you grow older, you will value
them all the more.

But I think you will soon learn to love the Lord Jesus for Himself,
and not for what He brings you. He wants your love. And, remember, He
has loved you all your life long, and He wants to live with you down
here in your heart, guiding you, teaching you, and helping you in all
your troubles and difficulties every day. Open your door to your best
Friend, invite Him to come in and make your heart His dwelling place.

Is it not wonderful that the King of kings should wish to enter your
heart?

Listen to what God says. He tells us of the two places in which He
dwells:

"Thus saith the high and lofty One that inhabiteth eternity, whose name
is Holy, I dwell in the high and holy place, with him also that is of a
contrite and humble spirit."

   "Oh Jesu, Thou art standing
      Outside the fast closed door;
    In lowly patience waiting
      To pass the threshold o'er.

   "Oh Jesu, Thou art pleading
      In accents meek and low,
   'I died for you, My children,
      And will ye treat Me so?'

   "Oh Lord, with shame and sorrow
      We open now the door:
    Dear Saviour, enter, enter,
      And leave us nevermore."



                        CHAT V

                         ———

                    How to Tackle
                       Giants



              "Without Me ye
               can do nothing."
                     (John 15.5)



                        CHAT V

                 How to Tackle Giants

   "Without Me ye can do nothing."
                         (John 15.5)

THERE is nothing we dislike more when we are very small than to be
helped.

How often you hear a little boy say:

"I can do it, Mother; let me do it myself."

It may be cutting up his food with a knife and fork; it may be washing
his face and hands, or any other simple thing. When he gets older he
thinks, he can do bigger things on his own, without anyone's help at
all. And very often experience teaches him that he is not so clever as
he thinks himself to be.

Now all Christian boys and girls have a great many difficulties and
temptations in their lives.

They make many resolves to be good, they want to be good. They mean to
start the day well, but somehow before they know it, their tempers have
got the better of them, and the day is clouded by tears and passion.

One of the reasons that the Lord Jesus came down from Heaven and lived
amongst people on the earth, was to show them how He wanted to help
them on their way to Heaven. He told His disciples just before He went
back to Heaven:

   "Lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world."

And He also said this to them:

   "Without Me, ye can do nothing."

Have you ever watched trains coming and going in a railway station?
Sometimes there is a long line of carriages, but no engine. Can those
carriages move along the rails by themselves? No; they may be perfectly
ready for passengers; the lights in them may be bright, the passengers
may get in and take their places, but without the engine, they can do
nothing. The engine comes along, there may be only one link joined to
it, and the whole train, carrying hundreds of passengers with their
luggage, will move along the line without any effort. Swiftly, easily
it glides along.

[Illustration: CHAT III. "Taken to the Police Station."]



[Illustration: Pictures to Paint—5. WHAT BIBLE SCENE IS THIS?]



Now take the engine. Can it move itself? Not without the steam power
within. If there is no steam, there is no movement. The wheels of the
engine cannot move themselves. Without the steam, the engine can do
nothing.

Have you seen great guns being fired? What sends the great shells
flying through the air for miles and miles? Can they make themselves
go? No, it is just a spark that ignites the powder. Without that spark
the shells, the guns can do nothing.

So we, capable as we may think ourselves, can do nothing unless we are
linked on—or are in touch with—our Lord and Master. "Without Me ye can
do nothing."

Do you think you can get on without Him?

Just think hard a minute. Sometimes you get up in the morning and you
feel good! You say to yourself: "f shan't lose my temper to-day," or,
"I shall do nothing to be scolded about."

And almost before you know it, you have given way to temper, or you
have got into disgrace for doing something wrong. How was it? You can't
explain it. "I forget," you say. Who can remind you just in time? The
One who offers to help you all day long.

Imagine a big battle about to take place, and the soldiers going into
it without any officer or general to tell them what to do. Would those
soldiers get the victory over well ordered troops coming against them?
No—never. And you will never get the victory over your enemies unless
your Captain is leading you, and you do what He tells you. "Without Me
ye can do nothing."

You must remember that the Devil with his hosts of wicked spirits are
out to try to get you to sin every day and all day. What chance have
you against the Devil? None at all, without your Captain's strong
loving Hand holding yours, and helping you to fight.

A little boy was bullied by a big boy. He tried to stand up to him,
but was knocked down at once. And then he caught sight of his father
walking down the street. In an instant, he picked himself up and darted
to his father's side.

"Hold my hand tight, Daddy," he cried.

The father did so.

Then the little fellow called to the bully to come on. "I'm ready for
you now," he said; "I'll beat you easy!"

He was secure and safe in his father's hold, and he feared nobody, and
nothing. That is how we can feel when Jesus is holding us by the hand.
Will He do it? This is what He says in His Word:

   "I the Lord have called them in righteousness, and will hold their
hand, and will keep them."

Now, when did Jesus say, "Without Me ye can do nothing?"

It was just before His death, that He told His disciples this truth.
He told them that He was like a vine, and they were like the branches,
but that just as branches cannot bear grapes if they are cut away from
the vine, so they could not bear fruit in their lives unless they were
joined to Him.

What a wonderful thing! Can a boy and girl be joined to Christ, the
King of kings and Lord of lords?

Yes, if they open their hearts' door to Him, He has promised to come in
and abide with them, and then He will help them to bear fruit.

Do you want to bring forth fruit in your life to-day?

Then keep close to Jesus and ask Him to fill your heart with the
sunshine of His presence. For:

   "Without Me ye can do nothing."

Do you remember the story of the shepherd boy killing the giant?

David might have had his sling and stones, but they would have been
useless unless he had had God with him when he went to meet him. He
told Saul that God had helped him to kill a lion and a bear, and that
He would deliver him out of the hand of the giant.

   "Without Me ye can do nothing."

It locks the door against all our own efforts and struggles. And the
key that unlocks it is:

   "I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me."

A sailor lad gave his heart to Christ one Sunday evening after a
mission service had been held. The minister talked to him afterwards,
and found out that he had a very bad home in the East End of London,
and was going home to spend the rest of his leave there.

"I don't know how I shall do it!" the poor boy said. "My mother drinks
and is hardly ever sober; my father and brother hate religion of any
sort, and have half killed a mission preacher when he was down our way.
How can I stand up against them?"

"But," said the minister quickly, "if the Almighty has you by the hand
and goes home with you, won't you be stronger than they?"

The boy smiled.

"Ay, sir, I'll be like David. I can tackle giants. I'm not afraid now."

He went home, and he was the means of bringing all his family into the
Kingdom of God. It was not he. It was God with him that did it.

You'll be afraid of nobody and of nothing if you have God holding you
by the hand.

But remember!

"Without Me, ye can do nothing."

[Illustration: CHAT V. "In a Railway Station."]



[Illustration: Pictures to Paint—6. WHAT GREAT EVENT IS THIS?]



                       CHAT VI

                         ———

                     A Free Gift



              "The gift of God is
               eternal life through
               Jesus Christ our Lord."
                     (Romans 6.23)



                       CHAT VI

                     A Free Gift

   "The gift of God is eternal life through
    Jesus Christ our Lord."
                          (Romans 6.23)

DON'T you like getting presents? I do. Birthdays and Christmas are
always enjoyable times. We love receiving surprise presents. I remember
visiting a house in the country once, and a little boy and girl of
the house came into my room when my luggage was being unpacked, and
eyed everything being taken out of my bag and boxes with the greatest
interest. At last they could keep silent no longer.

"And what have you brought us?" they asked.

I was filled with confusion, for I had brought them nothing. I had not
known of their existence. Their expectations were disappointed.

Another little boy of my acquaintance came to lunch with me one day.
His mother was with him, and I think had talked to him beforehand about
being on his best behaviour. I had got a toy for him to amuse himself
with, and he had a very good time after lunch playing with it.

When he was going away, I told him he could take it with him. "I'll
make you a present of it," I said.

To my surprise, he put his hands behind his back, and said, "Oh, no,
thank you."

"Don't you want it?" I asked.

He shook his head, though he eyed it lovingly.

"I assure you, your mother will like you to have it," I said.

But nothing would induce him to take it, and he went away without it.

I fancy he was trying to be extra good. He thought it was not good
manners to take a present away.

"What a silly boy!" you say.

But we often act like that with God. And it is such a pity, for we lose
so much by not stretching out our hands to take what He offers us.

We may have a present offered us, but if we won't put out our hands to
take it, what is the good of it to us? And how ungrateful to the kind
giver!

Sometimes people get unsuitable presents. I heard of a little girl who
bought a tiny doll's tea-set, and gave it to her mother as a birthday
present.

And a scholarly old bachelor uncle gave his little nephew on his
seventh birthday a Latin book, "Virgil's Aeneid."

We can fancy that neither of these presents was suitable!

Now God knows exactly what we want, and He gives us everything suitable
to our age and circumstances. But there is one gift that is wanted by
everybody, big and small, rich and poor. Many of the gifts we get in
this world, wear out, and come to an end; this one cannot come to an
end. And it is the gift that God likes to give us.

Some presents cost a lot of money. This one cost Somebody His life to
get, and that makes it the most valuable gift in the whole world.

In the time of slavery, there was an old negro woman who had a son
whom she loved very dearly. She and he lived and worked on a sugar
plantation in the West Indies, for they were both slaves. But at that
time some of the slave owners would allow their slaves to purchase
their freedom, and though it cost them a great deal of money, some
freed themselves in this way. It was this old woman's one desire in
life to work overtime, save her money, and free her son from bondage.

She did not tell him what she was doing but she worked when he was
asleep—and never took any rest or holiday herself. The consequence was,
she ruined her health, and after many years of this dreadfully hard
laborious life, she broke down, and had to take to her bed. But by that
time she had earned the money to buy the freedom of her son. She called
him one night to her dying bed, and produced a canvas bag.

"Here," she said, "is money to set you free, my son. You will never be
a slave any more. I have worked all my life to get it, and now I have
got the money, I die in peace."

She died in her son's arms—and he felt that his freedom had cost his
mother her life.

Now the gift that God offers to us all cost the Lord Jesus Christ His
life, and it is only through Him—or because of Him that we can get it.

What is it?

   "The Gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord."

Is not Eternal Life a tremendous gift to be offered to us? Yet we can
all have it. Every one of us—great and small—rich and poor. And if we
know we have it, death will not make us afraid. Our souls cannot die.
Eternal life with our Saviour in Heaven. That Land of Happiness which
is too glorious to be described. Who would not stretch out their hands
for such a gift?

But it needs empty hands to take it. We must let everything else go,
and we must take the Lord Jesus Christ for our own Saviour. It is only
for His sake, and through Him, that God gives us this gift.

Take it from Him now. Thank Him with all your hearts for giving it to
you, and serve Him and love Him for the rest of your lives. That is how
you can show your gratitude for such a gift as this.

It is the biggest gift you could have offered to you.

[Illustration: SELLING SPARROWS. Luke 12.6, 7.]

Suppose you had everything you want in this world, but no life in the
next?

If you were drowning, and were offered a pony, or a purse, or a house,
or a bag of gold, would you be glad of such gifts? "No," you would cry;
"it's my life I want. Save me."

And all the gifts that this world can give will be useless when we come
to die.

God's Great Gift of Eternal Life will be what we shall want then, and
if we have refused to take it all our life from His hands, how do we
know that we shall receive it from Him then? God will not offer His
gift for ever. It is insulting His love and goodness to refuse to take
it, to despise it, to be indifferent to it now. Stretch out your hand,
lay hold of Eternal Life! And you will thank God for ever and ever for
His wonderful Gift.

"The wages of sin is death, but the Free Gift of God is Eternal Life."



                       CHAT VII

                         ———

                     To Be Ready



              "Be ye therefore ready
               also, for the Son of
               Man cometh at an hour
               when ye think not."
                     (Luke 12.40)



                       CHAT VII

                     To Be Ready

   "Be ye therefore ready also, for the Son
    of Man cometh at an hour when ye think
    not."
                          (Luke 12.40)

WHAT is it to be ready? To be prepared.

We don't like unpunctual people. Some children are always late for
meals and late for school. But we lose pleasure sometimes by being
late. By not being ready. Suppose a rich uncle comes to take you out
for the day. He is going to take you into the country by a certain
train. You are not ready when he comes for you, you lose the train, and
he is so angry that he says he won't take you out at all. You lost your
treat by not being ready for it.

But "ready" does not only mean being in time. If a grown up girl was
going to be presented at the King and Queen's Court, she might be at
the Palace in time, but if she were not suitably dressed, if she had
not troubled to put on a court dress, she would not be "ready" for the
presentation.

Do you remember a story in the Bible like this? There was a man who
went to a palace at the King's invitation and sat down to feast with
him in his common soiled working clothes. He had been offered a
suitable party suit of clothes before he went into the Palace, but he
refused them, and he was sent away from the banquet, and turned away in
disgrace.

There are lots of stories about people coming to grief by not being
ready, though they were warned beforehand.

The trouble is with most of us, that we put off getting ready till too
late. It is no good to wait to get ready till the time comes. If people
move from one house to another, they pack up and prepare for weeks
beforehand. If you are going a journey, you don't wait to pack your
box till the car is at the door. Now, our Lord warns us that one day
He is returning to this world. He will surely come; but He will come
when people are not expecting Him. And then in a moment, every one in
the world will be separated from one another. Those that are ready will
meet Him and be happy with Him for ever; those that are not ready will
be sent away in disgrace and misery.

Do you remember the story of the wise and foolish Virgins. Only those
who were ready went inside the bridegroom's house, the others were shut
outside. When the flood came suddenly, only those who were ready went
into the Ark with Noah and were saved. When Sodom and Gomorrah were
destroyed, only those who were ready to leave it escaped with their
lives. And our Lord tells us the story of some servants who were left
in charge of their master's house whilst he was away. The master comes
back suddenly, and finds some of his servants not ready to meet him.
They had been enjoying themselves and not taking care of his house.
They had nothing ready for their master's return.

Jesus reminds us that He has gone away for a time, but He is really and
truly coming back, and by the signs in the world, His Return is very
near. Are you ready to meet Him? If He came to-day, this evening just
after dark, would you be found ready?

A soldier is shot if he is on sentry duty and found sleeping at his
post. Are you awake? Are you serving your absent Master as you would do
if He were close to you watching all that you do or say?

Perhaps you have never tried to serve your absent master. Perhaps you
say: "I don't think I am His servant at all."

It will be very sad and dreadful for you if the Lord comes back to this
world before you have begun to serve Him. You are indeed not ready for
His return. Won't you think about this very seriously, and determine to
get "ready" as soon as you can? How can you do this?

By giving your heart to Jesus, by asking Him to forgive you all your
sins, and make you His faithful and true little servant.

I can promise you from His own Word that He will answer these two
prayers.

He will forgive you your sins.

He will make you His young servant, and He will help you to serve Him
truly and faithfully every day till He comes.

Then you will be "ready" to meet Him.



                      CHAT VIII

                         ———

                     The Unknown
                       Visitor



              "There standeth One
               among you, Whom ye
               know not."
                     (John 1.26)



                      CHAT VIII

                The Unknown Visitor

   "There standeth One among you, Whom
    ye know not."
                          (John 1.26)

SOME little time ago our popular Prince of Wales was at a Race Meeting
in America, where he was almost mobbed by a rude and curious crowd.
Cameras surrounded him, and at last, out of patience with the mob, he
moved away, and after a time got amongst some grooms and jockeys lower
down the course, where he was not recognised, and where he enjoyed a
quiet time. The men with whom he talked in such a friendly fashion had
little idea that they were talking to the heir of the English Throne.

He stood amongst them and they knew him not.

Now, in the world to-day, in many an English home, One much higher and
more wonderful than a British Prince "stands amongst" the boys and
girls in that home, and "they know Him not."

Who is He? Jesus Christ, the King of Glory.

Why does He stand there?

Waiting to be known. Waiting to be loved. Waiting to be served. He
knows them. He loves them. He has served them even to laying down His
life for them. All has been done that can be on His side to win their
love and allegiance. Nothing, so far, has been done on their side.

He stands amongst them, and they know Him not.

Now, let us think how we get to know people.

It is not enough to know of their existence. We all know that we have a
king, we hear about him, but we do not know him as our friend.

Can we know anyone if we do not see them? I think so. A little girl's
father is in India, but her mother is always talking to her about him;
she reads bits of his letters to her, and tells her stories of what
he used to do and say when she was a tiny baby. By and by the father
begins to write to his little girl, and she writes to him. She tells
him all she does, and what she likes, and what she dislikes. He tells
her what he is doing, and gives her advice when she wants it.

At last, after years of waiting, he comes home.

Somebody asks the girl: "Will you be shy of your father? Won't he be a
stranger to you?"

"Oh, no," she says; "he and I are great chums; we've always written to
each other. I love his letters, and I love him."

Now this is how we should feel about the Lord Jesus Christ. When He
comes back to this world, He should be no stranger to us. We have had
His letters. We can read all His beautiful words to us in the New
Testament. We can do more than that little girl, we can talk to Him,
instead of writing. For He stands close to us always, and He hears our
faintest whisper.

Peter the Great, who ruled over Russia, was very fond of disguising
himself and going amongst his peasants, and seeing their poverty,
noticing who was most worthy of relief. He always won their confidence,
but on one occasion a man who was out of work and wanting employment,
was very rude to him.

"Go away," he said. "You are poor like ourselves, your clothes show
that; we don't want your pity or your comfort. We want money and
nothing else. You're no good to us at all."

[Illustration: WASHING FEET. John 13.3-5.]

He little knew who was standing amongst them, but later on he was told.

"Oh," he cried, "had I only known, what a lot I could have asked for!"

We can't admire a man like that, but our Lord stands amongst us to help
the needy, to strengthen the weak, to comfort the sorrowful.

"Oh," you say, "I have all I want. I'm not very poor, and I'm not sad,
and I'm having a pretty good time just now."

Then you don't want to know your King?

Let me tell you that when He comes back again to this world He will
either be your Judge or your Friend and Saviour. Which would you like
best?

If you have refused to know Him down here, when He opens the gates of
Paradise, the Golden City, and you press forward with the others who
are going in, He will look upon you sorrowfully, and will say:

   "I never knew you. Depart from Me."

And you will be shut out.

How sad! Why not now come to Him and belong to Him? Remember, He bought
you with His precious blood. He knows it is difficult to be always
good. He has been a boy himself, and knows how boys get tempted. And
He stands close to you, ready to help you fight your battles over
your besetting sins, longing to fill your young hearts with joy and
happiness, wanting to show you that a life in His service is a hundred
times happier than one lived in the service of the Devil, who wants to
destroy your soul.

Will you lift up your hearts, and ask Him to show Himself to you?

Here is another thought for you. You don't make friends of a stranger
in a moment, but you can fall in love at sight, and then the more you
talk with a person, the oftener you see them, the better you know them.

You have heard of our Lord Jesus Christ, you have read about Him, but
if you really want to know Him and take Him as your best Friend, you
must come to Him, pray to Him, and talk to Him often; you must read
what He says in His Word, and you must try and carry out His wishes
every day of your life.

Ask Him to make you know Him, love Him, and serve Him.

You cannot help loving Him when you remember that He has died for you,
when you realise that He will never leave you nor fail you as long as
you need His help.

Do not let it be said of you:

"There standeth One among you, Whom ye know not."



                       CHAT IX

                         ———

                         Our
                     Inheritance



              "An inheritance incorruptible,
               and undefiled, and that fadeth
               not away, reserved in Heaven
               for you."
                           (1 Peter 1.4)



                       CHAT IX

                  Our Inheritance

   "An inheritance incorruptible, and undefiled,
    and that fadeth not away, reserved in
    Heaven for you."
                          (1 Peter 1.4)

WHAT is an heir? A man or boy who comes into possession of a big house,
or money, or property when the owner of it dies. Have you ever read
a story called "Little Lord Fauntleroy?" It is about a little boy
in America who came over to England and found out he was heir to an
Earldom. His inheritance was a very big one.

Sometimes quite poor men suddenly come into an inheritance, for
which they are utterly unfitted. I remember a story of a tramp doing
this. And when he was placed in the big house which was part of his
inheritance, he was miserable.

At last he came to his lawyer and said: "Look here, I'm an uneducated
man, and I'm only happy amongst my own kind. The servants wait on me,
but they despise and laugh at me. I sit in a library full of books—I
can't understand one of them, and I'm not a reader. There's a place
they call an observatory, where you're supposed to study the stars. I
can't use it, for I'm ignorant of it all. There's a music room, but
what is the good of piano or organ to me, when I can't play a note.
There's a museum and a picture gallery. I don't care for either. I
haven't been educated enough to understand them. And the big people
round who come to call on me, terrify me. We haven't a thought in
common. You'll have to sell the house and property, and give me the
money. I'll spend it in drink and food amongst my friends."

Poor man! Don't you feel sorry for him? He wasn't able to enjoy what
belonged to him, for he had not been trained in the right way.

[Illustration: CHAT VII. "Think about this seriously."]



[Illustration: Pictures to Paint—7. WHAT NEW TESTAMENT SCENE IS THIS?]



Now, boys and girls who love the Lord Jesus are all heirs to an
inheritance. What does the Bible say?

That through Jesus, who died to get it for us, we have "an inheritance
incorruptible, and undefiled, and that fadeth not away, reserved in
Heaven for you."

We can't all look forward to coming into an inheritance on earth, but
we can look forward to one in Heaven. It is being reserved or kept for
us there. Now, if we aren't prepared in this life for that inheritance,
we shall be like that poor tramp: we shall be very miserable when we
get there. And that is just why God sent us into this world of trouble,
and pain, and difficulty, to train us and teach us and prepare us for
our inheritance.

When the old Queen Victoria, one of the best queens that has ever ruled
over the British Empire, was a little girl, she was trained in every
way by her mother and governesses for her inheritance. And when she was
told that she might become the queen one day, she clasped her little
hands and cried, "I will be good! I will be good!"

All Royal children are brought up much more strictly than you are, for
they must be educated and trained for their future inheritance. They
learn when quite small to please others before themselves, to put duty
before pleasure, to get up early to do their lessons, to study the
feelings of others, to control their tempers, and only to associate
with companions chosen by their parents or teachers.

An heir to a glorious inheritance must be prepared for years for it.
And God wants to prepare us for our glorious inheritance.

It is a most beautiful home in Heaven that will last for ever and ever.

Can we be sure of having this?

If we have been to Jesus to have our sins washed away, if we have held
out our hands for the pardon He purchased for us on Calvary and thanked
Him for it, if we are trying to serve Him day by day, then we can be
sure that the inheritance will be ours. But we must ask God to train
us, and when disagreeable things happen, we must not lose our temper,
for they are sent to test our tempers, to make us control ourselves,
and so to make us more fit for our inheritance by and by.

Boys and girls are often sent away to school, but one day they will
have finished their education, and then they will come home to their
father's house, and be able to take part in all that is going on there.

We are at school here being educated. By and by our education will be
finished, and we shall be called home to our Father's House in Heaven,
to take part in all that is going on there.

We have not worked for this inheritance. Like many earthly heirs, it
came to us through the death of Someone else. Who was this?

The Lord Jesus Christ, our Saviour, who loved us and gave Himself for
us, as we have already seen.

In the Acts of the Apostles, God sent St. Paul to the Gentiles "to open
their eyes and to turn them from darkness to light and from the power
of Satan unto God, that they might receive forgiveness of sins and
inheritance among them which are sanctified by faith."

You very often go up steps to a hall door, don't you? There are four
steps leading up to the golden door of our inheritance.

   1st. Our eyes must be opened to see we are sinners.

   2nd. We must be willing to leave the darkness of sin and choose the
light of goodness.

   3rd. We must be delivered out of the power of the Devil, and come to
the Lord Jesus.

   4th. We must receive forgiveness of our sins.

Can we do this ourselves? No, we can't take one of those steps in our
own strength.

God will do it all if we ask Him.

And then we shall be at the top of the steps waiting to be let through
that golden door into our glorious and beautiful inheritance.



         The City Bright

   THERE is a city bright;
     Closed are its gates to sin;
       Nought that defileth,
       Nought that defileth
     Can ever enter in.

   Saviour, I come to Thee;
     O Lamb of God, I pray,
       Cleanse me and save me,
       Cleanse me and save me,
   Wash all my sins away.

   Lord, make me, from this hour,
     Thy loving child to be,
       Kept by Thy power,
       Kept by Thy power
   From all that grieveth Thee,—

   Till in the snow-white dress
     Of Thy redeemed I stand,
       Faultless and stainless,
       Faultless and stainless,
   Safe in that happy land.



               Stories Illustrating Chats

                         ———

  CHAT I. A Lovely Old Garden

  CHAT II. The Gardener and the Lady

  CHAT II. What the Preacher Said

  CHAT III. The Big Dog and the Boy

  CHAT IV. Queen Victoria and the Cottager

  CHAT IV. The Liverpool Man and His Rent

  CHAT IV. The Young Woman and Her Mother

  CHAT V. The Bully and the Little Boy

  CHAT V. The Shepherd Boy and the Giant

  CHAT V. Little David in the East of London

  CHAT VI. The Children and their Visitor

  CHAT VI. The Boy who Refused a Present

  CHAT VI. A Mother who Got a Doll's Tea Set

  CHAT VI. A Bachelor Uncle's Peculiar Present

  CHAT VI. The Slave Mother and her Son

  CHAT VII. The King and the Unwise Subject

  CHAT VII. The Servants who Neglected their Duty

  CHAT VIII. The Prince of Wales in America

  CHAT VIII. The Little Girl, and her Father in India

  CHAT VIII. Peter the Great, Emperor of Russia

  CHAT IX. Little Lord Fauntleroy

  CHAT IX. A Tramp who Got a Mansion

  CHAT IX. Queen Victoria and the Crown



               Key to Coloured Pictures

        FROM ORIGINAL WASH DRAWINGS BY E. FREE.

                         ———

   I. The Potter—A Unique Eastern Wheel

         "Arise, and go down to the potter's house,
      and there I will cause thee to hear My words.
      Then I went down to the potter's house, and,
      behold, he wrought a work on the wheels. And
      the vessel that he made of clay was marred in
      the hand of the potter; so he made it again
      another vessel, as seemed good to the potter to
      make it."
                                     (Jer. 18.2-4)

  II. A Measure of Meal—Woman working with meal

         "The Kingdom of Heaven is like unto leaven,
      which a woman took, and hid in three measures
      of meal, till the whole was leavened."
                                     (Matt. 13.33)

 III. Selling Sparrows—Evidently ready for offering
      or cooking

         "Are not five sparrows sold for two farthings,
      and not one of them is forgotten before God?
      But even the very hairs of your head are all
      numbered. Fear not therefore: ye are of more
      value than many sparrows."
                                     (Luke 12.6, 7)

  IV. Washing Feet—Well-known Eastern Custom

         "Jesus knowing that the Father had given all
      things into His hands, and that He was come
      from God, and went to God; He riseth from
      supper, and laid aside His garments; and took a
      towel, and girded Himself. After that He poureth
      water into a bason, and began to wash the
      disciples' feet, and to wipe them with the
      towel wherewith He was girded."
                                     (John 13.3-5)



                Key to Pictures to Paint

        ORIGINAL DRAWINGS BY C. B. BIRCH, A.R.A.

                         ———

   I. The Passover In Egypt

         "And they shall take of the blood, and strike
      it on the two side posts and on the upper door
      post of the houses, wherein they shall eat it.
      And the blood shall be to you for a token where
      ye are: and when I see the blood, I will pass over
      you, and the plague shall not be upon you to
      destroy you, when I smite the land of Egypt."
                                     (Exod. 12.7, 13)

  II. The Firstborn Slain

         "And it came to pass, that at midnight the
      Lord smote all the firstborn in the land of Egypt,
      from the firstborn of Pharaoh that sat on his
      throne unto the firstborn of the captive that was
      in the dungeon: and all the firstborn of cattle.
      And Pharaoh rose up in the night, he, and all
      his servants, and all the Egyptians; and there
      was a great cry in Egypt; for there was not a
      house where there was not one dead."
                                     (Exod. 12.29, 30).

 III. Isaac and Rebekah

         "And Isaac came from the way of the well
      Lahairoi; for he dwelt in the south country.
      And Isaac went out to meditate in the field at
      the eventide: and he lifted up his eyes, and saw,
      and, behold, the camels were coming. And
      Rebekah lifted up her eyes, and when she saw
      Isaac, she lighted off the camel."
                                     (Gen. 24.62-64)

  IV. Young King Joash

         "Then they brought out the king's son, and
      put upon him the crown, and gave him the
      testimony, and made him king. And Jehoiada
      and his sons anointed him, and said, God save
      the king."
                                     (2 Chron. 23.11)

   V. Peter at the Fire

         "But a certain maid beheld him as he sat by
      the fire, and earnestly looked upon him, and
      said, This man was also with Him. And he
      denied Him, saying, Woman, I know Him not."
                                     (Luke 22.56, 57)

  VI. The Rent Veil

         "And Jesus cried with a loud voice, and gave
      up the ghost. And the veil of the temple was
      rent in twain from the top to the bottom."
                                     (Mark 15.37, 38).

 VII. Paul before Agrippa

         "Then Agrippa said unto Paul, Almost thou
      persuadest me to be a Christian. And Paul
      said, I would to God, that not only thou, but
      also all that hear me this day, were both almost,
      and altogether such as I am, except these bonds."
                                     (Acts 26.28, 29)

                         ———

   The Bible Pictures are from "Bagster's Bible Stories." A new handy
pocket edition, containing nearly 50 Original Drawings by C. B. BIRCH,
A.R.A. Very useful for children.



                Key to Bible Quotations


"He is able to keep that which I have committed unto Him against that
day" (2 Tim. 1.12).

"And when He saw a fig tree in the way, He came to it, and found
nothing thereon, but leaves only, and said unto it, Let no fruit grow
on thee henceforth for ever. And presently the fig tree withered away"
(Matt. 21.19).

"They that were foolish took their lamps, and took no oil with them"
(Matt. 25.3).

"His watchmen are blind: they are all ignorant, they are all dumb dogs,
they cannot bark; sleeping, lying down, loving to slumber" (Isa. 56.10).

"These are wells without water, clouds that are carried with a tempest;
to whom the mist of darkness is reserved for ever" (2 Peter 2.17).

"I love them that love Me" (Prov. 8.17).

"And whither I go ye know, and the way ye know" (John 14.4).

"I am the Door" (John 10.9).

"Those that seek Me early shall find Me" (Prov. 8.17).

"No man cometh unto the Father but by Me" (John 14.6).

"My son, give Me thine heart, and let thine heart observe My ways"
(Prov. 23.26).

"I dwell in the high and holy place" (Isa. 57.15).

"Lo, I am with you alway" (Matt. 28.20).

"I the Lord have called thee in righteousness" (Isa. 42.6).

"I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me" (Phil.
4.13).

"And then will I profess unto them, I never knew you: depart from Me,
ye that work iniquity" (Matt. 7.23).

"John answered them, saying, I baptise with water: but there standeth
One among you, whom ye know not" (John 1.26).

"To open their eyes and to turn them from darkness to light, and from
the power of Satan unto God" (Acts 26.18).

"And there shall in no wise enter into it any thing that defileth"
(Rev. 21.27).






*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 74293 ***
